Security main page (#44366)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/security/index.md

---
title: Security
short-title: Security
slug: Web/Security
page-type: landing-page
sidebar: security
---

Web security is the practice of protecting websites and their users from damage caused by malicious third parties, who are generally called _attackers_.

The kind of damage done can be reputational, financial, or even physical. It can target data that should be kept private to users, or actions that should be only made available to particular users. The motivations of attackers might be financial, political, or personal.

In this part of MDN we've written guides to help web developers understand how to protect their websites, and their users, against these attacks.

The documentation is organized into four main sections:

- [Attacks](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Attacks)
- [Defenses](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Defenses)
- [Threat modeling](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Threat_modeling)
- [Authentication](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Authentication)

In this page we'll introduce each of these sections and list the guides they contain. Before we do this, though, we'll state what we think are the core security practices that web developers should follow.

> 

Reviewer: The new material is useful and just at the right level. I would really prefer a heading here, and added to the top of the list above too.

```suggestion
In this page we'll introduce each of these sections and list the guides they contain. 

## Core security practices

Before we cover the separate aspects of website security, this section provides the core security practices that we think all web developers should follow.

```

Author: Actually I'm not sure splitting these two sentences "In this page" and "Before we cover" is a good idea, because I think it implies that this new section "Core security practices" is going to be part of "introduce each of these sections and list the guides they contain", when it isn't, it's something we are taking care of first.

Reviewer: @wbamberg You have a point. Several ways you might fix it, which I'll leave to you.

Something like ...

```
In this page we'll introduce each of these sections and list the guides they contain. 
First though, we'll just go through a few of the core security practices that we think all web developers should follow.

## Core security practices
```

  - Set the [`frame-ancestors`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Guides/CSP#clickjacking_protection) CSP directive, to control whether pages can be embedded in nested browsing contexts.

  - Set the [`require-trusted-types-for`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Guides/CSP#requiring_trusted_types) CSP directive, to help ensure that content has been sanitized before it is passed to potentially dangerous APIs.

- **Control cross-origin requests**: consider whether and in which circumstances you want to allow other {{glossary("origin", "origins")}} to make requests to your site, and use [fetch metadata](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Guides/Fetch_metadata) to control this.

- **Limit access to any cookies your site sets**. In particular:
  - Set the [`SameSite`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Reference/Headers/Set-Cookie#samesite) attribute to `Strict` if possible, or `Lax` otherwise.
  - Set the [`Secure`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Reference/Headers/Set-Cookie#secure) and [`HttpOnly`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Reference/Headers/Set-Cookie#httponly) attributes, if possible.
  - Minimize the lifetime of cookies that are used to represent logged-in users.

> - **Handle input securely**: if your site accepts input from the user or another system, [validate it](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Defenses/Input_validation). Before integrating any input into your site's pages, perform [output encoding](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Attacks/XSS#output_encoding) or [sanitization](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Attacks/XSS#sanitization).

Reviewer: "validate it" is showing up as a redlink.

Author: Because https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/44287 isn't merged yet, I think?

Reviewer: Whoops. Forgot I was reviewing that - but I think it is waiting on your responses.

Author: Yeah, I think it is waiting for me at the moment.

---
title: Security
short-title: Security
slug: Web/Security
page-type: landing-page
sidebar: security
---

Web security is the practice of protecting websites and their users from damage caused by malicious third parties, who are generally called _attackers_.

The kind of damage done can be reputational, financial, or even physical. It can target data that should be kept private to users, or actions that should be only made available to particular users. The motivations of attackers might be financial, political, or personal.

In this part of MDN we've written guides to help web developers understand how to protect their websites, and their users, against these attacks.

## Attacks

The [Attacks](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Attacks) section includes guides to common attacks on websites. An attack is a specific technique that an attacker can use to harm websites or their users.

> In this section, each guide describes an attack, or in some cases a class of related attacks. Each guide explains how the attack works, the conditions in which a website is vulnerable to it, and the methods to defend against it.

Reviewer: Feels a bit clunky - removing "in this section" helps, but maybe

```suggestion
Each guide covers a specific attack (or class of related attacks), explaining how it works, the conditions under which a website becomes vulnerable, and how to defend against it.
```

- [Certificate transparency](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Defenses/Certificate_Transparency)
- [Mixed content blocking](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Defenses/Mixed_content)
- [Operational security](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Defenses/Operational_security)
- [Same-origin policy](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Defenses/Same-origin_policy)
- [Secure contexts](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Defenses/Secure_Contexts)
- [Subresource integrity](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Defenses/Subresource_Integrity)
- [Transport Layer Security (TLS)](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Defenses/Transport_Layer_Security)
- [User activation](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Defenses/User_activation)

Note that not all defenses are described in this section: some, such as [CSP](2/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Guides/CSP) or [trusted types](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Trusted_Types_API), are described inside the technology area of which they are a part.

## Threat modeling

The [Threat modeling](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Threat_modeling) section introduces a process that web developers can follow to develop a structured representation of the potential threats that their site faces, based on the features it provides and the way these features are implemented.

> That is, threat modeling helps you understand which attacks you need to defend against.

Reviewer: FWIW Nothing wrong with this, but my "review-ometer" wanted to see note that threat models include decisions about responses/actions taken as well. I like the word "audit".
